README.md, before:

Use Case
========
Occasionally you may be required to send the same email to a number of people. This may be for regulatory reasons for a solicitor or accountant, or simply a group of family members you need to coordinate with. Using something like MailChimp would be overkill and allowing the option to unsubscribe would cause a problem for future required emails.

The emails need to be sent through a legitimate mail server, ideally the same server and account you normally use in order to reduce the risk they will be considered SPAM.

**DO NOT USE THIS SCRIPT TO SPAM PEOPLE!**

For emails that are not ***required*** to be sent, use a mailing list instead and ensure people are on it by choice and can unsubscribe easily.

Setup
=====
Rename **.env-template** to **.env** and add the necessary information for your mail server.

You will need the following files. Either create them yourself or rename those provided with **-template**.
- **from.txt** - Single line with no spaces at the start or end in the format ```Sender Name <sender@address.com>```
- **subject.txt** - Single line with no spaces at the start or end to be used as the email subject.
- **message.txt** - Plain text over multiple lines as required. Personalise the email using ```{name}``` where you want to display the recipient's short name.
- **contacts.csv** - First line should contain ```Short name,Full name,Email address``` with each subsequent line being the information for a single recipient. No spaces before or after the commas. The To field will be constructed as ```Full Name <Email address>```

Testing before sending
======================

I haven't added a TEST option to the script yet, so this next bit is really for my own benefit at present. For now you can manually adjust the script if you understand it.

Start local smtpd on Windows for testing with the following command. On Linux you may need to precede the command with ```sudo```

```commandline
python -m smtpd -c DebuggingServer -n localhost:1025
```

Commit message:

Exceptions (#1)
* ensuring script handles missing files

* initial change from simple script to class

* updated todo

* moved auto-send calls from init to own method

* updated todo

* updated todo

* added placeholder method for a trial run printing to console

* reordered class methods for a more logical flow

* created methods required for a trial run to debug smtpd

* updated todo

* updated todo

* created simple console app to choose between trial and live run with existing files

* updated the readme to reflect move to class

README.md, after:

Use Case
========
Occasionally you may be required to send the same email to a number of people. This may be for regulatory reasons for a solicitor or accountant, or simply a group of family members you need to coordinate with. Using something like MailChimp would be overkill and allowing the option to unsubscribe would cause a problem for future required emails.

The emails need to be sent through a legitimate mail server, ideally the same server and account you normally use in order to reduce the risk they will be considered SPAM.

**DO NOT USE THIS SCRIPT TO SPAM PEOPLE!**

For emails that are not ***required*** to be sent, use a mailing list instead and ensure people are on it by choice and can unsubscribe easily.

Setup
=====

TODO: something about venv and requirements.txt

The base directory has the file **.env-template**. Rename this to **.env** and add the necessary information for your mail server.

You will need the following files. Either create them yourself or rename those provided in the **email-preparation** folder with **-template**.
- **from.txt** - Single line with no spaces at the start or end in the format ```Sender Name <sender@address.com>```
- **subject.txt** - Single line with no spaces at the start or end to be used as the email subject.
- **message.txt** - Plain text over multiple lines as required. Personalise the email using ```{name}``` where you want to display the recipient's short name.
- **contacts.csv** - First line should contain ```Short name,Full name,Email address``` with each subsequent line being the information for a single recipient. No spaces before or after the commas. The To field will be constructed as ```Full Name <Email address>```

Running main.py directly
========================

This will provide you with a simple console application allowing you to choose whether to carry out a trial run or send the emails. Both options use the files stored in the **email-preparation** folder and require no further interaction.

In order to carry out a trial run, issue the following command in a separate console. On Linux you may need to precede the command with ```sudo```. The emails will be constructed normally and then printed to the console running the smtpd DebuggingServer.

```commandline
python -m smtpd -c DebuggingServer -n localhost:1025
```

Calling the class from your own application
===========================================

Import the class normally, adjusting for how and where you have the file on your system.

```python
from main import OneShot
```

Create an instance of the class.

```python
mailshot = OneShot()
```

Once you have activated an smtpd DebuggingServer (see previous section), you can carry out a test run with the ```mailshot.simple_test_run()``` method. Alternatively you can send the emails by calling ```mailshot.simple_send()```. Neither of these methods require further interaction to complete.

If you prefer to control the flow manually you can do so by calling the remaining methods as required.

TODO: document the class methods fully once complete.
